URL: https://mitadmissions.org/apply/process/selection/

Our selection process | MIT Admissions Skip to content ↓ MIT logo Menu ↓ Open Search Discover About MIT The MIT education Life & culture Learn more Apply Understanding the process Preparing for MIT First-year applicants Transfer applicants Parents & educators Afford Estimate your cost Cost & affordability How to apply for aid Student Financial Services Visit Explore MIT on your own Online info sessions Schedule your campus visit MIT visits you Request a group tour Maps, directions, parking Help FAQs Contact us Blogs Meet the bloggers Latest blogs Best of the blogs Magnifying glass icon next to a menu icon Open Search Form Search Pages, Blogs, and FAQs for Submit Search Home Apply Understanding the process Understanding the process: Our selection process How it works After you click the submit button, it’s easy to feel like your application has entered a black hole. So what really happens between when you apply and when you receive your decision? Once your application is complete, it will first be read by a senior admissions officer who will consider your application in a holistic manner, within its proper context. Strong applications will then be evaluated by additional admissions officers , who will summarize it for the Admissions Committee. These summaries, along with your entire application, will then go to the selection committee, where multiple groups of different admissions staff and faculty members will weigh in. At least a dozen people will significantly discuss and debate an application before it is placed in the admit pile. Student-centered This is all very intentional. The committee process ensures that every decision is correct in the context of the overall applicant pool, and that no one individual’s biases, preferences, or familiarity with a given case has any chance of swaying a decision unfairly. Our process is a student-centered process, not a school- or region-centered process. This means that we do not read your application along with other students from your school or region to compare you against each other; each applicant stands on their own. We have no quotas by school, state, or region. You are not at any disadvantage if other excellent students from your school or area are also applying. We also do not consider legacy/alumni relations in our process. At MIT, we try to be as transparent as possible about our admissions process. If you have any questions, just ask . You should really read these There have been over 7,270 blog entries posted to MITAdmissions.org since the site began in 2004. That’s easily several books worth of tips and tricks, hints and hacks, mea culpas and hakuna matatas . They’re all worth reading—but there are a few you really need to read. These are the blog entries that cut deep into our admissions process. Not only what we’re looking for, but what we want from you, and how much we care about the work that we do. These blogs will help you “get” what the MIT admissions process is all about. They include, in no particular order: It’s More Than A Job by Ben Jones Applying Sideways by Chris Peterson Bleary-Eyed by Mikey Yang The Room(s) Where It Happens by Jessica Ch’ng There Is No Formula by Ben Jones More in Understanding the process Our selection process Our mission What we look for Admissions statistics First-year class profile Related blogs Deep Breaths Perhaps wisdom, perhaps not. See for yourself. by Bryan December 31, 2006 49 comments Denied by MIT, 5 Years Later what happened after pi day 2011 by Chris Peterson SM '13 May 5, 2016 Esse quam videri To be, rather than to seem by David duKor-Jackson August 10, 2011 16 comments Believe in your magic a thank you to the 2018 applicant class by Latasha Boyd March 13, 2014 GOOD LUCK Everything happens for a reason. by Celena C. '12 December 16, 2009 42 comments Taking the L On "failure" at a place like MIT. by Kayode D. '27 October 16, 2024 More posts tagged Words of Encouragement An arrow pointing right MIT Admissions At MIT Admissions, we recruit and enroll a talented and diverse class of undergraduates who will learn to use science, technology, and other areas of scholarship to serve the nation and the world in the 21st century. Discover About MIT The MIT education Life & culture Learn more Apply Understanding the process Preparing for MIT First-year applicants Transfer applicants Parents & educators Afford Estimate your cost Cost & affordability How to apply for aid Student Financial Services Visit Explore MIT on your own Online info sessions Schedule your campus visit MIT visits you Request a group tour Maps, directions, parking Help FAQs Contact us Blogs Meet the bloggers Latest blogs Best of the blogs MIT Admissions, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Room E38-200, Cambridge, MA 02139 · Tel: 617.253.3400 About Accessibility Policies Jobs En Español Instagram