URL: https://sfs.mit.edu/undergraduate-students/the-cost-of-attendance/annual-student-budget/

Cost of attendance | MIT Student Financial Services Skip to content ↓ Please note : Student Financial Services is relocating to building E17 and is temporarily closed to walk-in visitors. We’re still here to help—feel free to reach out to us online or by email . Menu ↓ Undergraduate students Cost and affordability Our approach to aid Types of aid Apply for aid Veterans benefits Support resources Graduate students Cost of attendance Funding and aid Veterans benefits How to pay Understanding your bill Paying your bill Repay your loan Manage your money How we can help How to budget How to bank How to save How to do taxes Find a job For students For employers Go to the jobs board Contact sfs@mit.edu 617.258.8600 FAQs Forms Glossary Search Search Pages, FAQs and the Glossary for Submit Search Undergraduate students Cost and affordability Cost and affordability: Cost of attendance The annual student budget is the total price of an MIT education—per student, per year. The annual student budget, or cost of attendance, is the total amount we estimate it will cost a student to attend MIT for one year. ⁠It includes costs that are billed by MIT, such as tuition, housing, food, and estimates for other expenses, such as books, supplies, and personal expenses. We use this budget to determine financial aid for every student. However, you should know that most students pay far less because of our need-based financial aid. The median annual price paid by an undergraduate who received an MIT Scholarship was $12,938 ⁠ 01 2023–2024 is the last year for which we have full data. for the 2023–2024 academic year. We work with all financial aid applicants to make sure an MIT education is affordable . Cost of attendance for the 2025–2026 academic year Expense Cost Description Tuition $64,310 MIT subsidizes the total cost of tuition for every student. (It actually costs more than double this amount to provide our cutting-edge research facilities and faculty!) Tuition covers basic health insurance ⁠ 02 Please note that Massachusetts state law requires full health coverage, and it is required for all MIT students. You will be automatically enrolled in, and charged for the <a href="https://mit.myahpcare.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">MIT Student Health Insurance Plan</a>. However, if you already have full coverage, then you can submit a waiver for the additional insurance plan. and will give you urgent care, mental health visits, and specialist care at no extra cost. Student life fee $420 This helps to support student clubs, organizations, and the sports and fitness center. It also covers unlimited access to the gym, fitness classes, student organization events, and trips. Housing $13,614 All first-year students are required to live on campus. While our residence halls and living groups vary in cost, we calculate financial aid based upon the most expensive double room ($13,614). We’ll bill you in July for $6,807 (one semester of the most expensive room), then adjust it based on your actual housing cost in September. Your financial aid allowance will stay the same regardless of your actual expenses. Food $7,650 There are multiple dining plan options, including cooking for yourself, but for the purposes of determining your financial aid eligibility, we budget $7,650 per year for meals. This covers the most expensive meal plan. The amount won’t change regardless of your actual expenses. Books, course materials, supplies & equipment $910 MIT estimates $910 for these out-of-pocket expenses, regardless of how much you spend. Personal expenses $2,436 MIT estimates this amount to cover expenses such as clothes, laundry, and other bills. We use this amount regardless of how much you spend. Total $89,340 Remember, this is the price, before any aid . Note: Depending upon where you live, your award may also include a travel allowance. Computer purchases MIT does not automatically include a computer in the cost of attendance. However, if you plan to purchase a computer while at MIT and need financial assistance, there are a couple of ways that we can help . 2023–2024 is the last year for which we have full data. ⁠ back to text ↑ Please note that Massachusetts state law requires full health coverage, and it is required for all MIT students. You will be automatically enrolled in, and charged for the MIT Student Health Insurance Plan . However, if you already have full coverage, then you can submit a waiver for the additional insurance plan. ⁠ back to text ↑ Cost and affordability Making MIT affordable Estimate your cost Budgeting worksheet Cost of attendance Cost versus price Return on investment Computer purchases MIT Student Financial Services At Student Financial Services, we work to make MIT affordable for every family so their students can join our community and make the most of their education. Undergraduate students Cost and affordability Our approach to aid Types of aid Apply for aid Veterans benefits Support resources Graduate students Cost of attendance Funding and aid Veterans benefits How to pay Understanding your bill Paying your bill Repay your loan Manage your money How we can help How to budget How to bank How to save How to do taxes Find a job For students For employers Go to the jobs board FAQs Contact Forms Glossary MIT Student Financial Services, 77 Massachusetts Ave., Building E17-294, Cambridge, MA 02139 Accessibility Policies Contact